# Assignment 1: diagnostic recording

+ Record the following 18 sentences and submit the recording file online as a single file (LMS).  
(Note: If you realize that you have made a mistake, simple say “repeat” and continue without stopping the recording.)
+ Recording 1: 18 sentences 🎈[p.101]
+ Recording 2: Rainbow passage 🎈[p. 102]

## A. Test sentences for HW#1 (for diagnosis of your pronunciation)

### Recording example (script):** 

"Number one. Pleaes believe that ...., **_Number two. Tim's sister swims... , Repeat. (if you want to record again), Number two. Tim's sister swims...,_** Number eighteen. I have televisions in the.... This is the end of my recording."


1.	Please believe that sweet peas and beans are good to eat. Eat them at least twice a week. 
2.	Tim's sister swims a little bit. It keeps her fit, slim, and trim. 
3.	Ten times seven is seventy. Seven times eleven is seventy-seven. 
4.	Many animals inhabit Africa. Africa has camels, giraffes, parrots, and bats. 
5.	Doctors say jogging is good for the body. Lots of starch causes heart problems. 
6.	Who flew to the moon? Numerous lunar flights are in the news. We'll soon put a person on Jupiter and Pluto. 
7.	Would you look for my cookbook? It should be full of hints for good cookies and pudding. 
8.	The southern governor is Republican. The public election was fun. She won by one hundred votes. 
9.	The author gave a long talk in the office. The small audience thought it was boring. 
10.	Nurses do worthy work. They certainly deserve a word of praise.
11.	Labor Day is in September. Workers are honored. 
12.	Maine is a state in the northern United States. It's a great place for a vacation. 
13.	The North Pole is close to the Arctic Ocean. It's known for polar bears, snow, and severe cold. 
14.	Owls are now found throughout the world. They avoid crowds and make loud sounds. 
15.	Eyesight is vital for a normal life. I prize mine highly. 
16.	The auto industry is a loyal employer in Detroit. People enjoy their choice of cars. 
17.	Africa, Asia, Australia, South America, and Europe comprise five of the continents. North America is another continent. 
18. I have televisions in the bedroom, living room, and dining room. The programs about detectives and hospitals are my favorites.

## B. Reading passage (the rainbow passage)
* Read aloud the story a couple of times so that you get the general meaning of the passage. Then record your reading for submission. (LMS)

When the sunlight strikes raindrops in the air, they act as a prism and form a rainbow. The rainbow is a division of white light into many beautiful colors. These take the shape of a long round arch, with its path high above, and its two ends apparently beyond the horizon. There is , according to legend, a boiling pot of gold at one end. People look, but no one ever finds it. When a man looks for something beyond his reach, his friends say he is looking for the pot of gold at the end of the rainbow. Throughout the centuries people have explained the rainbow in various ways. Some have accepted it as a miracle without physical explanation. To the Hebrews it was a token that there would be no more universal floods. The Greeks used to imagine that it was a sign from the gods to foretell war or heavy rain. The Norsemen considered the rainbow as a bridge over which the gods passed from earth to their home in the sky. Others have tried to explain the phenomenon physically. Aristotle thought that the rainbow was caused by reflection of the sun’s rays by the rain. Since then physicists have found that it is not reflection, but refraction by the raindrops which causes the rainbows. Many complicated ideas about the rainbow have been formed. The difference in the rainbow depends considerably upon the size of the drops, and the width of the colored band increases as the size of the drops increases. The actual primary rainbow observed is said to be the effect of super-imposition of a number of bows. If the red of the second bow falls upon the green of the first, the result is to give a bow with an abnormally wide yellow band, since red and green light when mixed form yellow. This is a very common type of bow, one showing mainly red and yellow, with little or no green or blue. 

<The end>


- The Rainbow Passage, a public-domain text, can be found on page 127 of the 2nd edition of Grant Fairbanks’ Voice and Articulation Drillbook. New York: Harper & Row.
